The Project Gutenberg EBook of Molly O'Rigge, by Unknown

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Molly O'Rigge
       Sit ye Awhile and Tipple a Bit. The Delights of Wine.
       Caledonia! Native Land! The Warrior Bard. Beadle of the
       Parish.

Author: Unknown

Release Date: November 10, 2019 [EBook #60667]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOLLY O'RIGGE ***




Produced by hekula03, Jwala Kumar Sista and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)






                         +Transcriber's Note+

1.Typographical errors were silently corrected.

2.Table of Contents added, which is not seen in original book

3.The text version is coded for italics and the like mark-ups i.e.,
(a) italics are indicated thus _italic_; (b) Image are indicated as
[Illustration]

4.PM identified missing-line in poem's scanned .png, could retrieve
from Google search. Convinced of the same Transcriber added the missing
line "We'll be happy while on earth,", to establish completeness of the
2nd poem, with stanza 3 of "THE DELIGHTS OF WINE."

                         *    *    *    *    *




                            MOLLY O'RIGGE.

                    Sit ye awhile and tipple a bit.

                         The Delights of Wine.

                       _Caledonia! Native Land!_

                           The Warrior Bard.

                         Beadle of the Parish.

                            [Illustration]

                 Glasgow--Printed for the Booksellers.


  [Illustration]


                          Table of Contents

                         Transcriber's Note
                   MOLLY O'RIGGE, AND TOM TREACLE.
                   SIT YE AWHILE AND TIPPLE A BIT.
                        THE DELIGHTS OF WINE.
                       CALEDONIA NATIVE LAND!
                          THE WARRIOR BARD.
                        BEADLE OF THE PARISH.




  MOLLY O'RIGGE, AND TOM TREACLE.


  At Cork lived Miss Molly O'Rigge,
  With a nose like the snout of a pig,
  Long carroty locks,
  And ten pounds in the stocks,
  Was the fortune of Molly O'Rigge,
  What a beautiful Molly O'Rigge.

  Tom Treacle lov'd Moll O'Rigge,
  A pert little tea-dealing prig,
  Says he, Molly my dove,
  My heart is brim full of love.
  Says she, Grocer, I don't care a fig,
  What a hard hearted Molly O'Rigge.

  I hate men, quoth Molly O'Rigge.
  In love they're a mere whirligig:
  But Cornelius O'Whack,
  Gave her heart such a smack,
  That to church they both caper'd a jig,
  What a false-hearted Molly O'Rigge.

  Says the tea-dealer, Molly O'Rigge,
  My heart is with jealousy big,
  Says she, hold your clack,
  I'm now Mrs O'Whack
  I'm no longer Molly O'Rigge,
  Good bye, Mistress Molly O'Rigge.




  SIT YE AWHILE AND TIPPLE A BIT.


      We're gaily yet, and we're gaily yet,
      And we're no yery fou but we're gaily yet,
      Then sit ye awhile and tipple a bit,
      For we're no very fou but we're gaily yet.

  There was a lad, and they ca'd him Dick,
  He gae me a kiss, and I bit his lip,
  And down in the garden he shew'd me a trick
  And we're no very fou, but we're gaily yet.
      And we're gaily yet, &c.

  There were three lads, and they were clad,
  There were three lasses, and them they had,
  Three trees in the orchard are newly sprung,
  And we's a get geer enough, we're but young.
      And we're gaily yet, &c.

  Then up wi't Ailey, Ailey,
    Up wi't Aily now,
  Then up wi't Ailey, quo' kimmer,
    We's a get roaring fou.

  One was kiss'd in the barn,
  Another was kiss'd on the green,
  And the t'other behind the pease-stack,
  Till the mow flew up in her e'en.
      Then up wi't Ailey, &c.

  Now fye John Thomson, rin,
  Gin ever ye ran in your life,
  De'il get ye, but hye, my dear Jock,
  There's a man got to bed with your wife.
      Then up wi't Ailey &c.

  Then away John Thomson ran,
  And I true he ran with speed,
  But, before he had run his length,
  The false loon had done the deed.
        Then up wi't Ailey, &c.

      We're gaily yet, and we're gaily yet,
      And we're no very fou but we're gaily yet
      Then sit ye a-while and tipple a bit,
      For we're no very fu' but we're gaily yet.




  THE DELIGHTS OF WINE.


  Let's be merry with jest and song,
    Time as he swiftly flies, my boys,
  Will not a second our bliss prolong,
    But with his scythe mow down our joys;

  Then seize him by the forelock, Mirth,
    Pleasure drown him in the bowl--
  We'll be happy while on earth,
    We'll toast each laughter-loving soul.

  O the delights which wine can give,
    It every gen'rous bosom fires,
  Can make the sad again to live,
    And adds to Venus' fond desires.
  Sly Cupid sips the potent draft,
    The little urchin drinks to love,
  While mortals of the heavy heart,
    Own it celestial from above.

  Sorrow but comes too soon my boys,
    Fill your glass to each beauty bright,
  Talk not to us of flames or darts,
    We'll drink all day, and love all night.
  Care,--be thou banish'd from our board,
    Momus,--assist with all thy crew:
  Come,--Humour,--ape thy merry board.
    And--Wit,--assist thy chosen few.




  CALEDONIA! NATIVE LAND!


  Native land! I'll love thee ever,
    Let me raise the welcome strain;
  Mine were banish'd feet, that never
    Hop'd to press thy turf again,
  Now these eyes illum'd with gladness,
    As they scan'd thy beauties o'er,
  Ne'er again shall melt in sadness,
    Parting to return no more,
    Caledonia, native land,
    Native land, I'll love the ever.

  Native land, tho' fate may banish,
    And command me far to part,
  Never can thy mem'ry vanish,
    From this glowing, grateful heart,
  Let an Indian solstice burn me,
    Or the snows of Norway chill,
  Hither still, my heart, I turn thee,
    Here, my country, thou art still,
    Caledonia, native land,
    Native land, I'll love thee ever.




  THE WARRIOR BARD.


  The Minstrel Boy to the war is gone,
    In the ranks of death you'll find him,
  His father's sword he has girded on,
    And his wild harp slung behind him.--
  "Land of song!" said the warrior-bard,
    "Tho' all the world betrays thee;
  "One sword, at least thy rights shall guard,
    "One faithful harp shall praise thee!"

  The minstrel fell!--but the foeman's chain
    Could not bring his proud soul under,
  The harp he lov'd ne'er spoke again,
    For he tore its cords asunder;
  And said, "No chains shall sully thee,
    "Thou soul of love and bravery!
  "Thy songs we're made for the pure and free
    "They shall never sound in slavery."




  BEADLE OF THE PARISH.


      I'm a very knowing prig,
      With my laced coat and wig,
  Though they say I am surly and bearish;
      Sure I look a might man,
      When I flourish my rattan,
      To fright the little boys,
      Who in church-time make a noise,
  Because I'm beadle of the Parish.
      Here and there,--every where?
      Hollo now,--What's the row?
      Fine to do,--Who are you?
  Why, zounds, I'm the Beadle of the Parish.

      Whenever I come nigh,
      How I make the beggars fly,
  My looks are so angry and scarish,
      Like other city folks,
      I do business in the stocks.
      That whate'er is lost I tell,
      For you know I bear the bell,
  Because I'm the Beadle of the Parish,
      Noise and clatter,--What's the matter?
      Holla, fellow--You are mellow,
      Fine to do,--don't you see,
  Why, zounds--I'm the Beadle of the Parish.

      I'm an officer, don't laugh,
      But indeed I'm on the staff,
  And all sax I do pretty fairish;
      On a Sunday strut about,
      And I keep the rubble out,--
      The Church-wardens march before,
      Just to open the pew door,
  Because I am Beadle of the Parish,
      Puff away,--merry day,
      Drink about,--See it out,
      There will be--snacks for me,
  Because I'm the Beadle of the Parish.


  FINIS.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Molly O'Rigge, by Unknown

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOLLY O'RIGGE ***

***** This file should be named 60667.txt or 60667.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/6/6/60667/

Produced by hekula03, Jwala Kumar Sista and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

